I was just thinking yesterday about a scene for this movie I've been thinking about. It's a time travel movie about a group of Black people who go back in time to stop slavery. (Saying it out loud makes me realize it kind of sounds comedic, but it's supposed to be very serious.) Anyways, at the end, the main character Marcus King is an old man, giving a speech at the Xth anniversary of the unified black state and he's devastated. Something that should be a celebration, but he's completely distraught. Because he's realized that, yes, while he's created something good, the world that he comes from is gone. He killed it. He might have rescued millions from the shackles of slavery but he's simultaneously murdered millions who simply will never exist because he's changed the future. He is all that's left of his future and when he dies, the people he comes from will have never existed. 

Almost everyone is really, really confused by these turn of events. Obviously, the old man is entering senility, talking about time travel and a future that will never exist, but he's The Old Man. Their Moses. Their leader who brought them out from under the yoke of oppression. Everyone sits in stunned silence, unsure if they should respectfully try to get him off the stage or give him the time he needs to do whatever he's doing. 

A small child starts singing a song. A song that no one has really sang since the war. It's not clear how they would know it, since the war's been over for decades. But it was a song they sang on the lowest points of fighting on the battlefield. When food and medicine were low, it was the only thing that kept their spirits up. Someone else joins the child in singing. Then another. Soon, the whole room is singing.

Marcus King looks out and finally attains the peace he's been wanting for years. The people he came from will never be but his people will go on without him, better than ever he could have hoped for.

I always had this imagined scenario of people asking me for writing advice, like whether they should be a writer. And I think if the idea of dying before the things that you're imagining writing ever come to fruition doesn't just make you sad, it emotionally devastates you, that's how you'll know. 

That's the one thing that always makes me sad. I know I'm probably never going to write any of this. In my mind, why write a movie that literally no one is going to bother to produce?

This idea, though, that our truly great ideas create great debts upon us to make them a reality is a central theme for the monastery. Creating this monastery has been the culmination of that. There are oppositional forces in my mind. There's this idea of having to push forward, doing more, being greater, both as a way to try to combat capitalism while also being influenced by capitalism in its origin. 

The other path is that nothing should be forced. If I don't feel like working, I don't work. If I don't feel like writing, I don't write. I'm a person. I'm not a machine here to be productive. I have the right to exist without justifying my own existence.

But capitalism grows bigger and stronger every day and every moment of inaction is a moment it grows unchecked, yet at the same time, I can't possibly combat that, individually, on my own, against a global imperialist system. 

The Covenant of the Imagined hopes to challenge that. It's a spiritual obligation that doesn't center itself in being antagonistic against another force but rather centers itself on creation for the sake of manifestation. Not for the sake of competition, but because the alternative is that it might simply not exist.

To imagine the monastery is to enter into debt with the future. No one is coming. If we do not make it, it will not be made.