Helping Isn’t Always Safe. That’s the Problem.
    How Do You Help Without Getting Hurt?

Helping people is a crucial part of mutual aid. And while I am concerned about being exploited by profiteers, I'm more concerned about my safety and potentially being a victim. 

A while back, I was at the gas station and some guy asked me for a ride home. I declined. I felt bad on the way home, because if someone asks you for help, you should help them. Problem is if I don't know them, how am I able to protect myself? What if he pulls a knife and robs me or steals my car? What then? Maybe he just stabs me for fun? I don't know anything about this person and what they're capable of. And more importantly, there's no record of our interaction if something does happen to me.

When the monastery is more established, I have this rule: if someone/anyone comes to the monastery and asks for help, and its within our power to grant it, we must oblige them. But how is this different?

The difference lies in the weight and support behind the obligation. As individuals, we face the burden of decision and risk alone. But as a community, that responsibility is shared, and safeguards can be put in place. I think the most important thing is that as an individual, I don't feel like there are a lot of responses available to me. It's either yes or no. Either do it or don't do it.

And as for the monastery, a good way of mitigating this is that after help has been requested, part of the process is to walk away from the person and take five minutes to consider their request. (Obviously, if it's a medical emergency, we're not going to let them bleed out while we consider.) Walking away and considering the request and what we feel comfortable with is an essential part of that process. Having to immediately answer leads up to be impulsive and the average person's natural impulse is just to help people, but people use that to take advantage of them. 

This would allow us to discuss the request for help and adapt accordingly so that we can act as safely and securely as possible. On the way home from the gas station, I was doing the same thing and I realized, if the guy had been willing to provide me with his driver's license or to take his picture to document who he is, I think I probably would have felt better about giving him a ride. I don't think on an individual one-to-one basis, that would be feasible. Who am I to ask another person to verify what they are saying? But as a community helping someone, I think that's an easier sell. That's not some arbitrary whim of an individual. Its a rule to maintain a community's safety.

For profiteers, that's a bit of a different situation. I don't mind freeloaders as much as I mind people actively trying to profit off of our efforts. For the first request for help, we will treat that as a serious obligation that we will fulfill if we are able to, but subsequent requests will require a discussion and consideration of that person's character and our history with them.

Mutual aid demands both generosity and wisdom. By building community practices that honor both, we protect ourselves and deepen the roots of genuine care.





TRASH

There's a lot of homeless people where I live. Not a day goes by when I don't see one. There were three particular incidents that stick out in my mind.

Christmas Day. I had just gotten in an argument with a family member a little bit before midnight on Christmas Eve so I drove home from my grandmother's home. It was a pretty long drive so I stopped for gas. In that particular town, the wind is -crazy-. It's so strong, you can see the pumps physically shaking because of how strong the wind is. That particular night was no different. As I waiting for my gas to pump, I looked over and saw a homeless guy just sitting at the station. My heart broke. On Christmas Day of all days and he was out on the streets.

I thought, maybe I could help him. I could get him a room at one of the local motels. But then I realized if he fucked up the place, I would be the one that's financially liable. So I didn't.

Cut to a week or two later. For some reason, I got scheduled a morning shift and it's very, very cold out. I'm driving to work and I see a guy sitting in the rail yard by the side of the road. Just sitting in the fucking dirt. No tent. No makeshift shelter. Just sitting in the railyard. At 30-40F. That broke my heart more than anything, because I couldn't do anything.

A while back, I was in the Rite Aid and some guy was in the parking lot. I don't like interacting with people and this guy looked like he was looking for people to interact with. Even though, I was actively trying to avoid him, he stopped me and said that his car broke down with his wife and kid and he needed money for gas. I declined.