What a Dysfunctional Board Game Group Taught Me About Community
    Community Is Inconvenient. That’s the Point.
    

 A while back, I read something that boiled down to: participation in a community is annoying, but that's the price you pay to be a part of collective action. I felt like that was a bit uncharitable. Even for someone as antisocial as I am. I don't think it's right to characterize it as 'annoying'. It's inconvenient. It's not always convenient to have to make accommodations for other people. To have to talk to people when you could just be by yourself.

But convenience is what capitalism offers. That's what capitalism is based on. Built on. Convenience. You don't need to inconvenience yourself with details, learning, collaborating, or working. If you have money, someone in the free market will save you that inconvenience.

The inconvenience of community is its obligation. I as an individual am obligated to help my community work better just as my community has an obligation to provide for me. That's the whole purpose of being in a community.

I was part of a board game group a while back. I drove an hour each way to attend. There was a lot of drama. Sometimes, we'd play games I wasn't that fond of. But I showed up every week and, ultimately, it was the greatest board game group I was ever a part of. I genuinely feel sad it will likely never happen again. 

The one person who was kind of the center of all of the drama was also, in some ways, the reason why we all became so close. And it wasn't entirely bonding over the trauma of knowing them. I mean, they literally pulled everyone together. Maybe I'm being a little arrogant in this belief, but I think they and I were the two leaders of the group. But while I was more concerned with the process/games, they were more concerned with the bonding and social interaction. So even though interacting with them was inconvenient in many ways, it was key to the whole building of community. 

The reason why I object so strongly to referring to participation in a community as 'annoying' is that I find almost all social interaction annoying. It's like calling water wet.  Obligations tether you to expectations that are beyond your control. As a neurodivergent person, almost every social interaction is a little bit out of my control, because I don't know what their expectations are.

But shared and aligned purposes allows you to push through all of the negative aspects of obligation. In my board game group, if people wanted to only play 4 hour games or wanted to play Monopoly every single time, it would have been a problem. In my family, if their idea of family was an authoritarian top-down ideal of family, that would be a problem. And in the society I live in,  (America) its dominant conception of itself is white supremacist, conservative, and capitalist. That’s a problem.

Capitalism destroys communities by making everything transactional and the social media-fication of society is a huge example of that. Instead of sincere interaction, we have clout chasing. People will genuinely refer to themselves as 'a brand' without being ashamed or embarrassed. It’s not just that capitalism makes community inconvenient — it makes it feel unnecessary. And once you see yourself as a product, it becomes harder to be a person among people.

