
Why the White Tiger Monastery Exists
    Why I’m Building a Monastery I Might Not Live to See

I was talking to my best friend about the monastery recently. It wasn’t until recently — thanks to ChatGPT — that I could articulate the vision clearly. Before, it lived in vague instincts articulated in a half-finished fashion that only an ADHD-addled mind can truly accomplish. Now it’s becoming real.

My friend wanted to know why though. Why would I want to live this extreme lifestyle and seek others to do so with me? And I told him because I don't want to be a part of capitalism anymore. He, of course, responded predictably with: "Well, you're always going to be a part of capitalism." I think that's kind of the assumption that everyone has. You're always going to be a part of the capitalist system, therefore, why try?

Partly, I think this belief is rooted in the mistaken idea that any economic development is 'capitalism'. Thing is, though, the less you interact with capitalism, the less power it has. If I'm only working a fraction of full time hours at a job, barely interacting with the market economy, and living at poverty level income, that's bad for capitalism. I'm hurting capitalism by not incessantly feeding it.

The only reason I'm creating a monastery for this belief system is I can't do it alone. It's simply not possible to bootstrap an economy, even a basic one, on your own. And this is such an extreme belief system, only something akin to a religion would be applicable. I say it's like a religion because mere ideology isn’t enough. What I’m building isn’t just a critique of capitalism — it’s a moral and spiritual alternative. It needs rituals, shared values, and a community committed to living differently.

My friend asked me how big would I like it to be. I said millions of people. That's beyond my wildest dreams though, because I don't think anyone's going to join me. I'm not charismatic enough and an ascetic lifestyle like this isn't exactly the most compelling thing for the average American. 

My friend suggested I just needed to make myself into a charismatic leader. Then I could lead and recruit people and make it into a compelling organization. The point isn’t to lead.  It’s to live this way. If others join me, great. But I’m doing it regardless. Having to sell the belief system like a profiteer is antithetical to its very foundation. 

Capitalists have to sell things because often, besides creating a thing, they then have to also create a market for the thing in order to justify its existence. I don't need that justification. Capitalism's existence and its harmful role in my life is my justification.

Besides, I don't need to lead. This will ideally be an egalitarian organization. 

My friend simply could not comprehend the organization that I've been describing without it being hierarchical. A little context about my friend, his greatest wish in life has always been to have an entourage. Not necessarily as a leader but the social center of a group. He didn't understand why I would even want to create this group if I wasn't going to be leading it and my reply was: to do it.

And it became this circular thing, round and round until eventually, he came up with the argument: "Well, if you don't control it, someone else is going to and they're going to take it from you."

For the most part, that'd be my greatest dream. The idea that someone would take what I created and run with it and make it bigger than something I could even imagine sounds awesome to me. I would love that. My only caveat for that is a charismatic individual joining it and subverting the organization into something distasteful and antithetical to the group's core values.

But, yeah, even that, in of itself, just seems like one of those good problems. If I became a victim of my own success, that's not nearly as bad as just failing entirely.

You don't need to join my religion/monastery. You don't even need to fight capitalism. Maybe that's not your role in life. But I would encourage you to find the thing that you would do even if you fail. Think about all the things that you could do with your life until you have just the things that would devastate you if you didn't do them. Now from that list, pick something, anything, that even if you didn't accomplish it, it wouldn't be as bad as not doing it. 

You only have so much time in your life. Make your failures worth it.

